doc: Improve lazyAttrsOf, attrsWith/lazy (#410113)
NixOS/nixpkgs: nixos/doc/manual/development/option-types.section.md

    **Parameters**

    `elemType` (Required)
    : Specifies the type of the values contained in the attribute set.

    [`lazy`]{#sec-option-types-composed-attrsWith-lazy}
    : Determines whether the set of attribute names is evaluated before or after evaluating any attribute values.

      `lazy = true` is a preferable choice in principle, but requires extra effort if the option value is used in aggregate (e.g. `attrNames` or `toJSON`).

      When `lazy` is `true`, the attribute names are determined by looking at the definitions without evaluating them.
      If only a `mkIf false` occurs in an attribute, this may result in an error when the attribute value is accessed.

      When `lazy` is `false`, the attribute names are determined by evaluating the definitions to see if they are `mkIf` false, but this also causes the evaluation of regular non-`mkIf` definitions.
      Evaluating too much causes multiple problems:
        - infinite recursion if an attribute definition depends on a sibling attribute
        - irrelevant errors are triggered, despite an attribute not really being used
        - performance is worse, if any of the values are expensive to evaluate

>       **Recommendation**
> 
>       If the attribute set is used _in aggregate_ (e.g. `attrNames`, `toJSON`), use the default `lazy = false;`, so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *before* the attribute names are returned.
> 
>       If the attribute set is used _individually_ (e.g. `config.foo`), use `lazy = true;` so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *after* the attribute names are returned.
>       This will be more robust and efficient, as the attribute values are not computed until it is needed.

Reviewer: I'm not sure whether we absolutely need to point out it's a recommendation, because there's little opinion involved. It's just a fact that these are reasonable things to do. Another issue is that it's not clear who's recommending and why. Also a bold-print phrase in a paragraph is just not the right document structure. So if you insist it's a recommendation, how about:

```suggestion
      Maintainers of this code recommend:
      - If the attribute set is used _in aggregate_ (e.g. `attrNames`, `toJSON`), use the default `lazy = false;`, so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *before* the attribute names are returned.
      - If attributes are accessed _in isolation_ (e.g. `config.foo`), use `lazy = true;` so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *after* the attribute names are returned.
        This will be more robust and efficient, as the attribute values are not computed until it is needed.
```

Otherwise why not just:
```suggestion
If the attribute set is used _in aggregate_ (e.g. `attrNames`, `toJSON`), use the default `lazy = false;`, so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *before* the attribute names are returned.

If attributes are accessed _in isolation_ (e.g. `config.foo`), use `lazy = true;` so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *after* the attribute names are returned.
This will be more robust and efficient, as the attribute values are not computed until it is needed.
```

`types.attrsOf` *`t`*

:   _Shorthand for `types.attrsWith { lazy = false; elemType = t; }`._

    An attribute set of where all the values are of *`t`* type.

    This type is *strict* in its values, which in turn means attributes cannot depend on other attributes.

>     See `lazy` in `attrsWith`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See [`lazy` in `attrsWith`](#sec-option-types-composed-attrsWith-lazy).
```

    cannot depend on other attributes. See `
           types.lazyAttrsOf` for a lazy version.
    :::
    An attribute set of where all the values are of *`t`* type.

    This type is *strict* in its values, which in turn means attributes cannot depend on other attributes.
    See `lazy` in `attrsWith`.

`types.lazyAttrsOf` *`t`*

:   An attribute set of where all the values are of *`t`* type. Multiple
    definitions result in the joined attribute set. This is the lazy
    version of `types.attrsOf
          `, allowing attributes to depend on each other.
:   _Shorthand for `types.attrsWith { lazy = true; elemType = t; }`._

    ::: {.warning}
    This version does not fully support conditional definitions! With an
    option `foo` of this type and a definition

>     `foo.attr = lib.mkIf false 10`, evaluating `foo ? attr` will return

Reviewer: That example is actually valuable to illustrate what is meant by "more attributes than desirable". Instead of a warning, how about putting that text into an example box? Although it's not entirely wrong to make it a warning because it's a potential pitfall and source of inscrutable errors. May be enough to move it to the documentation of `lazy`.

Author: The `.note` in `attrsOf` leads to a similar amount of inscrutability.

I agree it wasn't wrong. I just think it doesn't make much sense anymore, now that it's just an explanation of the semantics.

Reviewer: It's an *illustration*, and I'd appreciate if we treated it like an example, which is always very good to have. I don't mind where it lives. Also the piece on `emptyValue` would be gone entirely. Admittedly it's a niche use case, but this reference documentation, the level of detail needs no ceiling here.

>     See `lazy` in `attrsWith`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See [`lazy` in `attrsWith`](#sec-option-types-composed-attrsWith-lazy).
```

>     Multiple definitions result in the joined attribute set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Multiple definitions will be merged in the resulting attribute set.
```

The wording confused me

>     `lazy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `lazy` {#sec-option-types-composed-attrsWith-lazy}
```

So we can refer to it via hyperlink rather than textually

    : Determines whether the set of attribute names is evaluated before or after evaluating any attribute values.

      `lazy = true` is a preferable choice in principle, but requires extra effort if the option value is used in aggregate (e.g. `attrNames` or `toJSON`).

>       When `lazy`, the attribute names are determined by looking at the definitions without evaluating them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      When `lazy` is `true`, the attribute names are determined by looking at the definitions without evaluating them.
```

I agree with the shorthand, but it's arguably easier to read for beginners if we have the same structure everywhere.

>       If only a `mkIf false` occurs in an attribute, this may result in an error when the attribute value is accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If a `mkIf false` occurs in an attribute, this may result in an error when the attribute value is accessed.
```

Artefact? Or am I misreading the intention behind that sentence?

Author: When an option has multiple defs, and only one is `mkIf false`, we're fine.

Technically this should be "if all definitions are `mkIf false`", but that's overly mechanistic IMO.

To make things worse, reading that as a _for all_, we'd think of the `all f [] == true` thing, which doesn't apply here, because the `[]` does not occur in this context.

      When `lazy` is `false`, the attribute names are determined by evaluating the definitions to see if they are `mkIf` false, but this also causes the evaluation of regular non-`mkIf` definitions.
      Evaluating too much causes multiple problems:
        - infinite recursion if an attribute definition depends on a sibling attribute
        - irrelevant errors are triggered, despite an attribute not really being used
        - performance is worse, if any of the values are expensive to evaluate

      **Recommendation**

>       If the attribute set is used _in aggregate_ (e.g. `attrNames`, `toJSON`), use the default `lazy = false;` option, so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *before* the attribute names are returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If the attribute set is used _in aggregate_ (e.g. `attrNames`, `toJSON`), use the default `lazy = false;`, so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *before* the attribute names are returned.
```

Let's avoid the risk of readers mixing up parameters and module options

      If the attribute set is used _individually_ (e.g. `config.foo`), use `lazy = true;` so that `mkIf` conditions are evaluated *after* the attribute names are returned.

>       This will result in a more robust and efficient evaluation, as the attribute values are not evaluated until it is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      This will be more robust and efficient, as the attribute values are not computed until it is needed.
```

Although it's not clear to me how exactly this is more robust.

>       It possible to combine both behaviors `submodule` with `freeformType = attrsWith { lazy = false; ... }` instead of `attrsWith`, in which case the declared options are allowed to refer to each other, but *only* through the submodule's module arguments.

Reviewer: This could really use an example, I can't picture how that would work. Also the sentence seems to be broken at the `submodule` part?
